libresonic/README.md, before:

![Alt text](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8325573/15113675/58de20c2-15bb-11e6-9fc6-47b310d92b5d.png "")

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Issues](#issues)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Docker Hub](#docker-hub)
    - [GitHub](#github)
    - [Initial Configuration](#initial-configuration)
- [Maintenance](#maintenance)
  - [Upgrading](#upgrading)
  - [Automatic Upgrades](#automatic-upgrades)
  - [Removal](#removal)
  - [Shell Access](#shell-access)
- [unRAID](#unraid)
  - [Installation](#unraid-installation)
  - [Automatic Upgrades](#unraid-automatic-upgrades)
- [Technical Information](#technical-information)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Volumes](#volumes)
- [Manual Run and Installation](#manual-run-and-installation)
- [License](#license)
- [Donation](#donation)


# Introduction

Libresonic is an open source, web-based media server.

Because Libresonic was written in Java, it may be run on any operating system
with Java support.  Libresonic supports streaming to multiple clients
simultaneously, and supports any streamable media (including MP3, AAC, and
Ogg).  Libresonic also supports on-the-fly media conversion (through the use of
plugins) of most popular media formats, including WMA, FLAC, and more.

This subfolder contains all necessary files to build a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) image for [Libresonic](https://github.com/Libresonic/libresonic).

## Contributing

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## Issues

Before reporting your issue please try updating Docker to the latest version
and check if it resolves the issue. Refer to the Docker [installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/installation) for instructions.

SELinux users should try disabling SELinux using the command `setenforce 0` to see if it resolves the issue.

If the above recommendations do not help then [report your issue](../../issues/new) along with the following information:

- Output of the `docker version` and `docker info` commands
- The `docker run` command or `docker-compose.yml` used to start the image. Mask out the sensitive bits.
- Please state if you are using [Boot2Docker](http://www.boot2docker.io), [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org), etc.


# Getting started

## Prerequisites

* ensure the user running the installation command can run docker

## Installation:

### [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hurricane/libresonic/):
It is recommended you install directly from the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hurricane/libresonic/).
Before starting the install procedure please verify that any and all
prerequisites are fulfilled:

The following command copies over a wrapper scrip that will create a container
named `libresonic` when executed. The wrapper script will ensure that the
container gets setup with the appropriate environment variables and volumes
each time it is executed. It does so by prompting and saving certain setting to
answer file that it will look up each time it is called.

Start the installation by issuing the following command from within a terminal:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```

Optionally, you can also install a systemd service file. Before installing the
systemd service file, you might want specify which user you wish the daemon to
run as, specifically if it differs from the user running the installation. You
can do this by reinstalling libresonic with the following command:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target -e "APP_USER=username" \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```

If the user you specified does not have a valid home directory you will
probably want to specify an alternate location to store the libresonic
configuration and database like so:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target \
    -e "APP_USER=username" \
    -e "APP_CONFIG=/var/libresonic" \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```
Above, change the `username` to the name of the user you wish to run the daemon
as, and adjust `/var/libresonic` to wherever it is you wish to store your
libresonic database and information. Please verify that `$APP_USER` is the owner
of `$APP_CONFIG`.

Afterward, proceed with the service file installation:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /etc/systemd/system:/target \
   hurricane/libresonic instl service
```

If you installed the systemd service file, you can enable libresonic to
automatically start when the system boots by executing the following command:
```
sudo systemctl enable libresonic.service
```

### [GitHub](https://github.com/hurricane/docker-containers/libresonic):
Installation from GitHub is recommended only for the purposes of
troubleshooting and development. To install Libresonic from GitHub execute the
following:
```
git clone https://github.com/hurricane/docker-containers
cd docker-containers/libresonic
make instl
```

Additionally, you can install the systemd service file after executing the
above by issuing the following:
```
make service
```

### Initial Configuration:

Once Libresonic has been installed you can simply execute the binary from a terminal:
```
libresonic
```

The first time you run the Libresonic container it will prompt you for the
locations of `MUSIC`, `PODCASTS`, and `PLAYLISTS`. Enter one response per
query.  This will ensure that the container gets access to the host's file
system from within the containerized environment.


# Maintenance

## Upgrading:

If you have installed our systemd service file, you can update by
executing the following command:
```
sudo systemctl restart libresonic.service
```

Additionally you can update by:
```
docker exec libresonic update
```

Or by executing:
```
docker pull hurricane/libresonic
docker stop libresonic
libresonic
```

## Automatic Upgrades:

In order to have the container periodically check and upgrade the libresonic
binary one needs to add  a [`crontab`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron)
entry. Like so:
```
echo "0 2 * * * docker exec libresonic update" | sudo tee -a /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
```

## Removal:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \
  --volume /usr/local/bin:/target \
  hurricane/libresonic uninstl
```

## Shell Access

For debugging and maintenance purposes you may want access the containers
shell. If you are using Docker version `1.3.0` or higher you can access
a running containers shell by starting `bash` using `docker exec`:

```bash
docker exec -it libresonic bash
```


# unRAID:

You can find the template for this container on GitHub. Located [here](https://github.com/hurricanehrndz/container-templates/tree/master/hurricane).

## unRAID Installation:

Please navigate to the Docker settings page on unRAID's Web-UI and under repositories add:
```
https://github.com/hurricanehrndz/container-templates/tree/master/hurricane
```
For more information on adding templates to unRAID please visit the [unRAID forums](https://lime-technology.com/forum/).

## unRAID Automatic Upgrades:

On unRAID, execute the following to have the container periodically update
itself. Additionally, add the same line of code to your `go` file to make the
change persistent.
```
echo "0 2 * * * docker exec libresonic update" | sudo tee -a /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
```


# Technical information:

By default the image has been created to run with UID and GID 1000. If using
the automatic install method from Docker, the container is set to run with the
UID and GID of of the user executing the `libresonic` wrapper script.
Additionally, the wrapper script by default saves libresonic's database and
settings in a hidden sub folder in the executing user's home directory. Most
default settings can be adjusted by passing the appropriate environment
variable. Here is a list of any and all applicable environment variables that
can be override by the end user.

## Environment Variables:

You may overwrite the default settings by passing the appropriate environment variable:
* APP_USER   - name of user to create within container for purposes of running libresonic, UID, GID are more important.
* APP_UID    - UID assigned to APP_USER upon creation.
* APP_GID    - GID assigned to APP_USER upon creation.
* MAX_MEM    - maximum Java heap size in megabytes. Default value is 150.
* KEEP_TRANSCODE - ensures transcode directory does not get wiped each time the
  container is created.

If you set HTTPS_PORT to something else other than `0` all HTTP request will be
redirected to HTTPS.

Please read Docker documentation on [environment variables](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#env-environment-variables) for more information.

## Volumes:

* `/var/libresonic`    - Folder to store Libresonic's log, configuration and database.
* `/var/music`         - Default music folder.
* `/var/music/Podcast` - Default podcast folder.
* `/var/playlists`     - Default playlists folder.


# Manual Run and Installation:

Of course you can always run docker image manually. Please be aware that if you
wish your data to remain persistent you need to provide a location for the
`/config` volume. For example,
```
docker run -d --net=host -v /*your_libresonichome_location*:/var/libresonic \
                         -v /*your_music_folder_location*:/var/music \
                         -v /*your_podcast_folder_location*:/var/music/Podcast \
                         -e TZ=America/Edmonton
                         --name=libresonic hurricane/libresonic
```
All the information mention previously regarding user UID and GID still applies
when executing a docker run command.


# License

Code released under the [MIT license](./LICENSE).


# Donation

[@hurricanehrndz](https://github.com/hurricanehrndz): <a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=74S5RK533DD6C"><img src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif" alt="[paypal]" /></a>

Commit message:

adjusting libresonic to use jetty, and fixing transcode folder.

libresonic/README.md, after:

![Alt text](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8325573/15113675/58de20c2-15bb-11e6-9fc6-47b310d92b5d.png "")

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Issues](#issues)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Docker Hub](#docker-hub)
    - [GitHub](#github)
    - [Initial Configuration](#initial-configuration)
- [Maintenance](#maintenance)
  - [Upgrading](#upgrading)
  - [Automatic Upgrades](#automatic-upgrades)
  - [Removal](#removal)
  - [Shell Access](#shell-access)
- [unRAID](#unraid)
  - [Installation](#unraid-installation)
  - [Automatic Upgrades](#unraid-automatic-upgrades)
- [Technical Information](#technical-information)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Volumes](#volumes)
- [Manual Run and Installation](#manual-run-and-installation)
- [License](#license)
- [Donation](#donation)


# Introduction

Libresonic is an open source, web-based media server.

Because Libresonic was written in Java, it may be run on any operating system
with Java support.  Libresonic supports streaming to multiple clients
simultaneously, and supports any streamable media (including MP3, AAC, and
Ogg).  Libresonic also supports on-the-fly media conversion (through the use of
plugins) of most popular media formats, including WMA, FLAC, and more.

This subfolder contains all necessary files to build a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) image for [Libresonic](https://github.com/Libresonic/libresonic).

## Contributing

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## Issues

Before reporting your issue please try updating Docker to the latest version
and check if it resolves the issue. Refer to the Docker [installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/installation) for instructions.

SELinux users should try disabling SELinux using the command `setenforce 0` to see if it resolves the issue.

If the above recommendations do not help then [report your issue](../../issues/new) along with the following information:

- Output of the `docker version` and `docker info` commands
- The `docker run` command or `docker-compose.yml` used to start the image. Mask out the sensitive bits.
- Please state if you are using [Boot2Docker](http://www.boot2docker.io), [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org), etc.


# Getting started

## Prerequisites

* ensure the user running the installation command can run docker

## Installation:

### [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hurricane/libresonic/):
It is recommended you install directly from the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hurricane/libresonic/).
Before starting the install procedure please verify that any and all
prerequisites are fulfilled:

The following command copies over a wrapper scrip that will create a container
named `libresonic` when executed. The wrapper script will ensure that the
container gets setup with the appropriate environment variables and volumes
each time it is executed. It does so by prompting and saving certain setting to
answer file that it will look up each time it is called.

Start the installation by issuing the following command from within a terminal:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```

Optionally, you can also install a systemd service file. Before installing the
systemd service file, you might want specify which user you wish the daemon to
run as, specifically if it differs from the user running the installation. You
can do this by reinstalling libresonic with the following command:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target -e "APP_USER=username" \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```

If the user you specified does not have a valid home directory you will
probably want to specify an alternate location to store the libresonic
configuration and database like so:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /usr/local/bin:/target \
    -e "APP_USER=username" \
    -e "APP_CONFIG=/config" \
    hurricane/libresonic instl
```
Above, change the `username` to the name of the user you wish to run the daemon
as, and adjust `/config` to wherever it is you wish to store your
libresonic database and information. Please verify that `$APP_USER` is the owner
of `$APP_CONFIG`.

Afterward, proceed with the service file installation:
```
docker run -it --rm -v /etc/systemd/system:/target \
   hurricane/libresonic instl service
```

If you installed the systemd service file, you can enable libresonic to
automatically start when the system boots by executing the following command:
```
sudo systemctl enable libresonic.service
```

### [GitHub](https://github.com/hurricane/docker-containers/libresonic):
Installation from GitHub is recommended only for the purposes of
troubleshooting and development. To install Libresonic from GitHub execute the
following:
```
git clone https://github.com/hurricane/docker-containers
cd docker-containers/libresonic
make instl
```

Additionally, you can install the systemd service file after executing the
above by issuing the following:
```
make service
```

### Initial Configuration:

Once Libresonic has been installed you can simply execute the binary from a terminal:
```
libresonic
```

The first time you run the Libresonic container it will prompt you for the
locations of `MUSIC`, `PODCASTS`, and `PLAYLISTS`. Enter one response per
query.  This will ensure that the container gets access to the host's file
system from within the containerized environment.


# Maintenance

## Upgrading:

If you have installed our systemd service file, you can update by
executing the following command:
```
sudo systemctl restart libresonic.service
```

Additionally you can update by:
```
docker exec libresonic update
```

Or by executing:
```
docker pull hurricane/libresonic
docker stop libresonic
libresonic
```

## Automatic Upgrades:

In order to have the container periodically check and upgrade the libresonic
binary one needs to add  a [`crontab`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron)
entry. Like so:
```
echo "0 2 * * * docker exec libresonic update" | sudo tee -a /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
```

## Removal:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \
  --volume /usr/local/bin:/target \
  hurricane/libresonic uninstl
```

## Shell Access

For debugging and maintenance purposes you may want access the containers
shell. If you are using Docker version `1.3.0` or higher you can access
a running containers shell by starting `bash` using `docker exec`:

```bash
docker exec -it libresonic bash
```


# unRAID:

You can find the template for this container on GitHub. Located [here](https://github.com/hurricanehrndz/container-templates/tree/master/hurricane).

## unRAID Installation:

Please navigate to the Docker settings page on unRAID's Web-UI and under repositories add:
```
https://github.com/hurricanehrndz/container-templates/tree/master/hurricane
```
For more information on adding templates to unRAID please visit the [unRAID forums](https://lime-technology.com/forum/).

## unRAID Automatic Upgrades:

On unRAID, execute the following to have the container periodically update
itself. Additionally, add the same line of code to your `go` file to make the
change persistent.
```
echo "0 2 * * * docker exec libresonic update" | sudo tee -a /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root
```


# Technical information:

By default the image has been created to run with UID and GID 1000. If using
the automatic install method from Docker, the container is set to run with the
UID and GID of of the user executing the `libresonic` wrapper script.
Additionally, the wrapper script by default saves libresonic's database and
settings in a hidden sub folder in the executing user's home directory. Most
default settings can be adjusted by passing the appropriate environment
variable. Here is a list of any and all applicable environment variables that
can be override by the end user.

## Environment Variables:

You may overwrite the default settings by passing the appropriate environment variable:
* APP_USER   - name of user to create within container for purposes of running libresonic, UID, GID are more important.
* APP_UID    - UID assigned to APP_USER upon creation.
* APP_GID    - GID assigned to APP_USER upon creation.
* MAX_MEM    - maximum Java heap size in megabytes. Default value is 150.
* KEEP_TRANSCODE - ensures transcode directory does not get wiped each time the
  container is created.

If you set HTTPS_PORT to something else other than `0` all HTTP request will be
redirected to HTTPS.

Please read Docker documentation on [environment variables](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#env-environment-variables) for more information.

## Volumes:

* `/config`    - Folder to store Libresonic's log, configuration and database.
* `/music`     - Default music folder.
* `/podcasts`  - Default podcast folder.
* `/playlists` - Default playlists folder.


# Manual Run and Installation:

Of course you can always run docker image manually. Please be aware that if you
wish your data to remain persistent you need to provide a location for the
`/config` volume. For example,
```
docker run -d --net=host -v /*your_libresonichome_location*:/config \
                         -v /*your_music_folder_location*:/music \
                         -v /*your_podcast_folder_location*:/podcasts \
                         -e TZ=America/Edmonton
                         --name=libresonic hurricane/libresonic
```
All the information mention previously regarding user UID and GID still applies
when executing a docker run command.


# License

Code released under the [MIT license](./LICENSE).


# Donation

[@hurricanehrndz](https://github.com/hurricanehrndz): <a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=74S5RK533DD6C"><img src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif" alt="[paypal]" /></a>
